RFC 3376

p.6
Note that IGMP Queries and Reports are not subject to source filtering and must always be processed by hosts and routers.

p.8
Unrecognized message types MUST be silently ignored.

p.10
When receiving packets, the checksum MUST be verified before processing a packet.

p.11
If the Packet Length field in the IP header of a received Query indicates that there are additional octets of data present, beyond
the fields described here, IGMPv3 implementations MUST include those octets in the computation to verify the received IGMP Checksum, but
MUST otherwise ignore those additional octets. When sending a Query, an IGMPv3 implementation MUST NOT include additional octets beyond the fields described here.

p.12
In IGMPv3, General Queries are sent with an IP destination address of 224.0.0.1, the all-systems multicast address.
Group-Specific and Group-and-Source-Specific Queries are sent with an IP destination address equal to the multicast address of interest.
*However*, a system MUST accept and process any Query whose IP Destination 
Address field contains *any* of the addresses (unicast or multicast) assigned to the interface on which the Query arrives.

p.14
When receiving packets, the checksum MUST be verified before processing a message.

p.15
If the Packet Length field in the IP header of a received Report indicates that there are additional octets of data present, beyond 
the last Group Record, IGMPv3 implementations MUST include those octets in the computation to verify the received IGMP Checksum, but
MUST otherwise ignore those additional octets. When sending a Report, an IGMPv3 implementation MUST NOT include additional octets beyond the last Group Record.

p.17
Routers MUST accept a report with a source address of 0.0.0.0.

p.18
Version 3 Reports are sent with an IP destination address of 224.0.0.22, to which all IGMPv3-capable multicast routers listen.

p.18
If the set of Group Records required in a Report does not fit within the size limit of a single Report message (as determined by the MTU
of the network on which it will be sent), the Group Records are sent in as many Report messages as needed to report the entire set.

p.19
The all-systems multicast address, 224.0.0.1, is handled as a special case. On all systems -- that is all hosts and routers, including
multicast routers -- reception of packets destined to the all-systems multicast address, from all sources, is permanently enabled on all
interfaces on which multicast reception is supported. No IGMP messages are ever sent regarding the all-systems multicast address.

p.20
A change of interface state causes the system to immediately transmit a State-Change Report from that interface.

p.25
On each interface over which this protocol is being run, the router MUST enable reception of multicast address 224.0.0.22,
from all sources (and MUST perform the group member part of IGMPv3 for that address on that interface).

p.25
When a group membership is terminated at a system or traffic from a particular source is no longer desired, a multicast router must query
for other members of the group or listeners of the source before deleting the group (or source) and pruning its traffic.

p.25
Group-Specific Queries are sent when a router receives a State-Change record indicating a system is leaving a group.

p.26
Multicast routers implementing IGMPv3 keep state per group per attached network.
That state conceptually consists of a set of records of the form: (multicast address, group timer, filter-mode, (source records))
Each source record is of the form: (source address{, source timer})

p.27
As a rule, once a group record with a filter-mode of EXCLUDE is received, the router filter-mode for that group will be EXCLUDE.

p.27
Because a reported group record with a filter-mode of EXCLUDE will cause a router to transition its filter-mode for that group to EXCLUDE,
a mechanism for transitioning a router’s filter-mode back to INCLUDE must exist. 
If all systems with a group record in EXCLUDE filter-mode cease reporting,
it is desirable for the router filter-mode for that group to transition back to INCLUDE mode. 
This transition occurs when the group timer expires and is explained in detail in section 6.5.


