RFC 3376
========

HOSTS
-----

p.20
To cover the possibility of the State-Change Report being missed by one or more multicast routers, it is retransmitted [Robustness
Variable] - 1 more times, at intervals chosen at random from the range (0, [Unsolicited Report Interval]).

p.20
If more changes to the same interface state entry occur before all the retransmissions of the State-Change Report for the first change
have been completed, each such additional change triggers the immediate transmission of a new State-Change Report.

p.21
The transmission of the merged State-Change Report terminates retransmissions of the earlier State-Change Reports for the same
multicast address, and becomes the first of [Robustness Variable] transmissions of State-Change Reports.

p.22
When a system receives a Query, it does not respond immediately.
Instead, it delays its response by a random amount of time, bounded by the Max Resp Time value derived from the Max Resp Code in the
received Query message. A system may receive a variety of Queries on different interfaces and of different kinds (e.g., General Queries,
Group-Specific Queries, and Group-and-Source-Specific Queries), each of which may require its own delayed response.

p.22
Before scheduling a response to a Query, the system must first consider previously scheduled pending responses and in many cases
schedule a combined response. Therefore, the system must be able to maintain the following state:
o A timer per interface for scheduling responses to General Queries.
o A per-group and interface timer for scheduling responses to Group-Specific and Group-and-Source-Specific Queries.

p.22 - 23
The following rules are then used to determine if a Report needs to be scheduled and the type of 
Report to schedule. The rules are considered in order and only the first matching rule is applied.
1. If there is a pending response to a previous General Query scheduled sooner than the selected delay, no additional response needs to be scheduled.
2. If the received Query is a General Query, the interface timer is
    used to schedule a response to the General Query after the selected delay. Any previously pending response to a General Query is canceled.
3. If the received Query is a Group-Specific Query or a Group-and-Source-Specific Query and there is no pending response to a
    previous Query for this group, then the group timer is used to schedule a report.
    {If the received Query is a Group-and-Source-Specific Query, the list of queried sources is recorded to be used when generating a response.}
4. If there already is a pending response to a previous Query scheduled for this group, and {either} the new Query is a Group-
    Specific Query {or the recorded source-list associated with the group is empty}, then the group source-list is cleared and a single
    response is scheduled using the group timer. The new response is scheduled to be sent at the earliest of the remaining time for the 
    pending report and the selected delay.

p.23
When the timer in a pending response record expires, the system transmits, on the associated interface, one or more Report messages
carrying one or more Current-State Records (see section 4.2.12), as follows:

1. If the expired timer is the interface timer (i.e., it is a pending response to a General Query),
    then one Current-State Record is sent for each multicast address for which the specified interface has reception state, as described in section 3.2.
    The Current-State Record carries the multicast address and its associated filter mode (MODE_IS_INCLUDE or MODE_IS_EXCLUDE) and source list.
    Multiple Current-State Records are packed into individual Report messages, to the extent possible.
2. If the expired timer is a group timer
    {and the list of recorded sources for the that group is empty (i.e., it is a pending response to a Group-Specific Query)},
    then if and only if the interface has reception state for that group address, a single Current-State Record is sent for that address.
    The Current-State Record carries the multicast address and its associated filter mode (MODE_IS_INCLUDE or MODE_IS_EXCLUDE) and source list.
   
   
ROUTERS
------- 
...
